Year 1 Core Modules App Development Project Business Statistics Computing Mathematics Data 
Analysis & Visualisation Digital Business Effective Communication Skills Fundamentals of Innovation & 
Enterprise General Studies Infocomm Security Law & Ethics of IT  Network Technology Principles of UX 
Design Programming Essentials Web Development App Development Project [60 hours] Students will 
learn the concepts of object -oriented programming, including classes, encapsulation, inheritance and 
polymorphism and apply them to construct practical software components that are maintainable and 
extensible. Students will work in teams to develop, test and implement innovative and interactive 
applications to solve real life problems using design thinking approach and agile pr ocess. Business 
Statistics [60 hours] Students will learn statistical knowledge that are useful and relevant for business 
applications. Topics include descriptive statistics using numerical measures, regression and correlation 
analysis, discrete and contin uous probability distributions, sampling distribution, statistical estimation 
and hypothesis testing. Students will be equipped with knowledge and skills to transform data into 
useful knowledge and information for business decision -making. Computing Mathem atics [60 hours] 
Students will be equipped with the knowledge in mathematics and analytical skills for developing 
algorithms in programming. The topics they learn include Number System, Set Theory and Logic, 
Matrices, Relations, Functions, Differentiation and Integration. Data Analysis & Visualisation [60 hours] 
Students will learn the fundamental concepts of visual representation of data for effective 
communication of information and data analysis. They will be equipped with knowledge of data 
visualisation  approaches for various data types, data mining methods and emerging data visualisation 
trends. They will also learn how to use software tools to extract, cleanse and transform data into useful 
information for analysis and better business decision making. Digital Business [60 hours] Students will 
learn the goals and essentials of business operations and the various industries that businesses operate 
in. They will learn how industries, such as the financial services industry, use digital technologies to 
transform their businesses. Students will be equipped with a strong foundation in the underlying 
technologies such as digital payments; data analytics and block -chain that are transforming the way 
businesses and the financial industry deliver products and serv ices to customers. Students will be able to 
explain how digital marketing can empower businesses to engage with prospects and customers. 
Effective Communication Skills [30 hours] Communicating well is a vital life skill, benefitting all aspects 
of our live s from professional life to social gatherings. It is thus important to be proficient in both 
written and oral communication. This module will enable learners to communicate effectively in 
different settings and on different collaborative platforms. There w ill be opportunities to practise and 
deliver various types of presentations, to learn to competently handle questions, and to effectively 
incorporate verbal and non -verbal elements when speaking. Learners will also acquire media and info 
literacy, and be a ble to produce clearly written and well -structured reports and proposals, following 
standard citation and referencing guidelines. Fundamentals of Innovation & Enterprise Students will 
develop attributes that are pervasive and synonymous with being innovati ve and enterprising for career 
and life. Through this module students will develop positive practices when working with data, propose 
ideas using user -centric approaches and design processes, determine and locate resources, and leverage 
collaborative pract ices to formulate solutions.  General Studies To provide you an all -rounded 
education, NYP offers General Studies Modules (GSMs). So besides taking modules related directly to 
your chosen diploma course, you will get exposed to areas beyond your usual fiel d of study. Through a 
combination of prescribed and elective inter -disciplinary GSMs, you will gain interesting, practical 
knowledge that can be beneficial to you as you prepare for the world of work and life after graduation. 
To learn more about the GSMs offered, click here Infocomm Security [60 hours] Students will learn basic concepts and principles of information security from personal and enterprise perspectives. It provides 
an understanding of information security trends, security threats, security in cidents, security policies, 
procedures and guidelines. Law & Ethics of IT [30 hours] Students will be able to understand the law and 
ethics surrounding the use of IT. They will be able to describe issues such as intellectual property rights 
protection and infringement, copyrights and plagiarism, software piracy, computer crimes, Internet 
fraud, objectionable materials and confidentiality in the information age. They will also be able to 
articulate Singapore’s laws on cybersecurity, data privacy, etc. Networ k Technology [60 hours] Students 
will acquire foundation knowledge on how communication networks operate and services they provide. 
It covers essentials of the Internet including its various services such as email and the web. Students will 
be able to desi gn and implement network for small and medium enterprises, perform basic 
configurations for networking devices, and implement IP addressing schemes. Principles of UX Design 
[30 hours] Students will appreciate the concepts of User Experience (UX) and UX des ign. They will 
understand the fundamentals in visual design and apply user -centred design principles and techniques 
in design prototyping. They will also gain knowledge of best practices and evaluation methods and use 
them in analysing and evaluating desig ns of web and mobile applications. Programming Essentials [60 
hours] Students will learn the basic concepts and principles behind computer programs, and the building 
blocks that are used to create them. Students will understand fundamental programming cons tructs and 
basic data structures that will help them to apply their knowledge of computational thinking in practical 
ways. They will also learn to develop strategies for testing, debugging and apply their programming skills 
to develop algorithms to solve c omputational problems. Web Development [60 hours] Students will 
learn the basic concepts of the Internet and hypertext, and how these concepts are integrated to 
provide World Wide Web applications over the Internet. They will first focus on learning the th eory 
behind current web -based development tools and technologies including HTML, CSS and JavaScript to 
develop interactive and rich media web pages. Students will then advance to learning how to create 
optimized responsive web pages for optimal viewing on devices with different screen size and 
resolution. Year 2 Core Modules Applications Security Project Applied Cryptography Communication and 
Personal Branding Cyber Forensic Technologies Data Structures & Algorithms Database Management 
Systems General Studi es Infosecurity Project Infosecurity Standards, Policies & Audit Network Security 
Operating Systems & Administration Software Engineering Systems Security Management Applications 
Security Project [60 hours] Students will learn about the methods, processes,  tools and technologies in 
developing secured and security -enabled software applications. Students will learn techniques and 
process in building software applications to meet confidentiality, integrity and availability needs, as well 
as authentication, non -repudiation and authorisation requirements. Students will then apply their 
knowledge in the development of a project, using skills acquired from this and other modules in the 
course. Applied Cryptography [60 hours] Students will learn how cryptography wor ks to enforce 
confidentiality and integrity in the digital world and protect information from security threats. They will 
understand the foundation of cryptography, including different types of encryption and hashing 
algorithms. Students will be able to ap ply cryptography in various scenarios, including public key 
infrastructure (PKI), digital signatures, key management and authentication applications. 
Communication and Personal Branding [30 hours] In today’s competitive environment, a strong personal 
brand  sets one apart from others. In this module, learners will develop techniques to impress and 
persuade others to accept their ideas. They will also learn how to communicate effectively over e -mail. 
To support their job search, learners will use digital port folios to showcase their abilities, as well as gain 
the knowledge and skills to promote their capabilities in their cover letters and resumes. They will also acquire skills to project themselves positively and for performing well at interviews. Cyber Foren sic 
Technologies [60 hours] Students will learn how to use technologies and tools involved in digital 
evidence gathering, analysis and presentations for both investigative and legal purposes. Students will 
know about information recording, storage and retr ieval technologies in magnetic, optical and 
electronic media, key industry standard volume and file system formats, techniques and technologies in 
information retrieval from a given media, duplication technologies and procedures, heuristic and 
procedural d ata analysis techniques of examining the captured data, including how to safeguard 
evidence and reporting the findings. Data Structures & Algorithms [60 hours] Students will learn how to 
use concepts of data structures and algorithms for effective problem solving. Topics such as arrays, 
dynamic data structures, stacks, queues and algorithms for searching and sorting will be covered. 
Database Management Systems [60 hours] Students will learn to design and implement a relational 
database. They will learn the components of database systems, the conceptual, logical and physical 
design of relational databases. It covers skills in accessing and manipulating database systems through 
the use of SQL (Structured Query Language). General Studies To provide you an all -rounded education, 
NYP offers General Studies Modules (GSMs). So besides taking modules related directly to your chosen 
diploma course, you will get exposed to areas beyond your usual field of study. Through a combination 
of prescribed and elective inter -disciplinary GSMs, you will gain interesting, practical knowledge that can 
be beneficial to you as you prepare for the world of work and life after graduation. To learn more about 
the GSMs offered, click here Infosecurity Project [60 hours] Students will lea rn about the methods, 
processes, tools and technologies in identifying, classifying and protecting information. They will be able 
to integrate this knowledge in the design and development of infosecurity solutions. Students will learn 
apply their knowledge  in the development of a project, using skills acquired from this and other modules 
in the course. Infosecurity Standards, Policies & Audit [30 hours] Students will learn about information 
security standards, how to formulate security policies, establishin g appropriate controls, followed by 
conducting reviews and audits. Students will learn information security audit process and techniques, 
including asset evaluation, establishing a risk -based audit strategy, audit planning, conducting audit 
followed by doc umenting and communicating of the findings. Students will learn how to do this using 
Computer Assisted Auditing Techniques (CAAT) and auditing tools. Network Security [60 hours] Students 
will learn how to secure networks by implementing appropriate protoco ls and strategies. Topics covered 
firewalls, access control lists and Virtual Private Networks. Students will also be able to recognise and 
mitigate threats and patch vulnerabilities by applying concepts in intrusion detection and prevention 
techniques. Op erating Systems & Administration [60 hours] Students will learn fundamental concepts of 
operating systems, including the different types of operating systems, the core components of operating 
systems and their related algorithms and security features. Stud ents will acquire skills in system 
administration and shell script programming for Windows and Linux. Software Engineering [60 hours] 
Students will learn how to explain the concepts and methodologies to construct high quality software 
systems and to manage  software projects. It covers Unified Process and Agile Software Development 
Process. A fundamental understanding of good software design principles will be discussed, including 
the illustration of object -oriented analysis and design development. UML is us ed to facilitate the 
modelling of analysis and design. Students will explore various software testing techniques to identify 
the test cases for software validation. They will also understand concepts of DevOps that enable fast 
delivery of business values i n a changing world. Systems Security Management [60 hours] Students will 
learn the techniques and technologies used in provisioning and management of secured server systems, 
software services in hosting environment. Students will learn how to implement sec ured system configuration, system hardening, access and activity authentication, authorization and monitoring of 
web server, application server, database server and hosting environment such as Windows and Linux / 
Unix operating systems. Year 3 Core Modules  Cybersecurity Project Final Year Project General Studies 
Governance, Risk & Compliance Internship Programme or Overseas Internship Programme Cybersecurity 
Project [60 hours] Students will learn how to apply the methods, processes, tools and technologies 
learnt in the course to identify, design and implement a cybersecurity solution to a selected problem. 
They will be able to work as a team to manage the project, including the risk and deliver a working 
solution. Students will learn apply their knowledge in  the development of a project, using skills acquired 
from this and other modules in the course. Final Year Project The Final Year Project module gives 
students the practical experience of carrying out a software development project from project 
requirement s, implementation, testing to delivery and presentation of the software. The students will 
go through a software process with deliverables at different stages of the process. The projects often 
require students to learn and apply new technologies and softw are tools that are beyond the boundary 
of the course curriculum. This will inculcate independent and life -long learning. The engagement of 
industry projects provides an added dimension for students to think market place, appreciate windows 
of opportunity a nd see things from the eyes of the customers, while concurrently subjected to the real -
life requirements of quality, cost -effectiveness and time -to-market. The students will have the 
opportunity to put project management into good practice. The above areas  are not meant to be 
exhaustive. In general, all projects which are relevant to the course will be given serious consideration. 
General Studies To provide you an all -rounded education, NYP offers General Studies Modules (GSMs). 
So besides taking modules re lated directly to your chosen diploma course, you will get exposed to areas 
beyond your usual field of study. Through a combination of prescribed and elective inter -disciplinary 
GSMs, you will gain interesting, practical knowledge that can be beneficial to  you as you prepare for the 
world of work and life after graduation. To learn more about the GSMs offered, click here Governance, 
Risk & Compliance [30 hours] Students will learn about IT governance and regulatory compliance of 
today’s business environment . They will know how to apply risk management techniques in the 
formulation, design, implementation and maintenance of IT and security governance, relying on controls 
such as policies, procedures, infrastructure, technology and people. Students will be abl e to describe 
relevant regulations of today and explain how they can be complied with in the modern IT environment. 
Internship Programme or Overseas Internship Programme The 12/24 -week internship programme at a 
local or an overseas company exposes students  to a real -life work environment and facilitates a 
structured and integrated learning programme for them. They will get to apply the knowledge and skills 
that they have acquired to work practice. The programme will also enable them to gain a broader 
perspe ctive and knowledge of the industry, companies and careers in respective professions. The 
students will get to experience the realities of a work environment and the importance of work values 
and culture. They will also get to deepen their relevant skills for them to be well -placed to pursue a 
career in their chosen discipline. Prescribed Electives (Choose three modules) Cybersecurity Track Cloud 
Computing Security Cybersecurity Attack & Defense Cybersecurity Operations & Intelligence Mobile 
Security Operat ions Security Cloud Computing Security [60 hours] Students will learn about cloud 
computing technologies and related security best practices. They will explore prominent cloud service 
models, including Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS), Platform as a Serv ice (PAAS), and Software as a 
Service (SAAS). Students will learn advanced web and network security in a high availability hosting 
environment, access control, data replication and backup for data security, privacy and availability as 
well as data leakage prevention in cloud computing environment. The module concludes with best practices in controls & audit and out -sourcing as well as the importance of regulatory compliances.   
Cybersecurity Attack & Defense [60 hours] Students will learn the concepts, tool s and techniques used 
in both cyber attacks and defence. This includes techniques and tools used in foot -printing and social 
engineering, scanning and enumeration, system and network penetration, reverse engineering, planting 
Trojans, backdoors and hopping  and escalating attack from the compromised systems. The students will 
learn penetration testing process and the ethical and legal aspects of penetration testing.   Cybersecurity 
Operations & Intelligence [60 hours] Students will learn the latest technolog ies and tools associated with 
the collection, collation, analysis and transformation of data into intelligence for use in Cybersecurity 
risk mitigation efforts. Students will be able to integrate this intelligence into Cybersecurity operations 
to enhance r esiliency in IT operations within the organization. The module will also expose students to 
the latest cybersecurity threat landscape and the current thoughts on cybersecurity trends by leaders in 
the field.   Mobile Security [60 hours] Students will learn  about the framework of prevalent mobile 
platforms, including their respective security models. They will be able to implement secured mobile 
applications. Students will know the best practices in implementing secured mobile application solutions 
for enter prises and lifestyle users for selected device platforms. Students will be able to take advantage 
of the security configurations and user provisioning to mitigate threats against mobile users and their 
applications.   Cyber Forensics Track Advanced Cyber F orensic Techniques Cyber Forensic Process 
Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity Management Malware Analysis Advanced Cyber Forensic 
Techniques [60 hours] Students will study the latest technologies and tools which are used in the 
collection, collation an d analysis of data derived from various digital devices and networks. Students will 
learn about the challenges faced in cyber forensics, and advances in forensic techniques and 
technologies that help ensure the ability to investigate and discover evidence is not compromised.   
Cyber Forensic Process [60 hours] Students will learn about the processes involved in conducting 
effective cyber forensic practices. Students will practice the processes involved in preliminary planning, 
equipment seizing, evidence co llection, recording, and safeguarding process, opening and developing a 
forensic case, forensic anomaly investigation process, reporting and presenting process in legal and civil 
cases. The Singapore law, as well as legal practices and case studies of past  court rulings and 
prosecutions through digital forensic evidence will be taught. The application of cyber forensic process 
onto investigations into cyber attacks and espionage will be covered as well.   Malware Analysis [60 
hours] Students will learn the processes and techniques involved in performing malware analysis. They 
will be able to describe different types of malware and their techniques of propagation and spreading. 
Students will learn malware identification and isolation, unpacking binary malware  code with basic 
reverse engineering techniques, study impact analysis followed by producing vaccine to neutralise its 
infection and harmful activities. Various security software tools will be used to reinforce the concept 
taught. Students will also learn basic reverse engineering techniques.   Cross -Disciplinary Elective 
(Choose one Prescribed Elective module from any SIT diploma course) Entrepreneurship Foundation of 
AI Robotic Process Automation Social Media Analytics *Modules may be revised to align lea rning 
content with developing trends and technologies.  